All right, so one more type of
decorator that we're going to build.
And in fact we are actually
manually building it.
But you're going to see them in
big frameworks and libraries,
especially in Django, it
is used all over the places.
So we're going to build
a simple decorator.
We're going to face, an error,
and unexpectedly it will come
and then we're going
to learn how to fix them.
And these are the things you learn
in the production only.
So let me go ahead and share
the screen with you.
So I have created a simple
new file which is auth decorator.
Again, it's a really
simple kind of decorator.
You're going to see this a lot.
The first step is always same, so
we're going to borrow some code.
So we'll copy this and paste it.
Whenever we are defining any
decorator, this is the most
common thing that you have to.
Let's just say we want
to define a simple decorator
which says require admin.
So we are creating a wrapper function
that if any function executes,
and I wrap this up without
a function, that means only admin
can actually execute that function.
Pretty useful functionality
to be honest.
And I go ahead and simply accept
function just like this.
And we know this at the rate
wraps to preserve all
of the metadata just like this.
And after that I can say,
let's just say we define a wrapper,
which this time takes user role.
Now wrapper doesn't always
need to take all
the arguments just like this.
If you know that we expect
only one argument to be
passed on, just take that.
If you think that more
will be coming up.
There is no harm in saying args
and keyword args, all of them.
So all of them automatically pass on.
But it's not really precise
and I like precise code.
All right, then we simply go
ahead and check if the user
role is not equals to admin.
We simply go ahead and say
just like this, a simple print
message that says,
something like this, access denied.
And we will say admins only.
So this is an admin only area.
And after that we
put up an else part.
And in the else case we simply go
ahead and say return whatever the
function you are trying to run with
the user role, we'll just return
that as it is so that it can keep on
executing.
And we will also go ahead
and say return the wrapper.
Pretty simple.
We have seen this many
times, no problem at all.
Now we'll see, that this
is how we use Decorator.
And once this decorator is here,
we simply go ahead and say I want
to create another method
which says access tea inventory.
And this is a common thing that
you want to access the inventory.
Somebody will pass me a role that
what role you have so that you
can access the inventory and print
a simple statement that says access
granted to tea inventory.
There we go.
Now let's go ahead and run this one.
I want to run it two times.
Access to inventory.
Oops.
Oh, why I did that.
Access to inventory.
And we will first of all pass
on a user and then we'll go
ahead and pass on admin.
So what do you think will happen
with this piece of code?
It's pretty guessable,
but the execution
will actually shock you a little.
So if the user role is user, then
we simply go ahead and return
the It is not admin, so we'll
just go ahead and print this.
Hey, this is admin, not allowed.
If it is admin, then we'll simply
go ahead and execute this.
So this will execute as it is.
We are not stopping anything.
But to your surprise, if I run
this whole piece of code
and why is it behaving like that?
And I have to say exit.
There we go.
Don't know what happened.
I'll just say Python03.
I am actually in the wrong folder
somehow open an integrated terminal.
This time I'm at right place.
Let's run this.
And this one is 03 and there we go.
Admins only and tea
inventory granted.
So first of all it
actually stopped me.
All right, that's good.
And access granted.
I was expecting that there will
be an error, but it didn't came.
It might come at some places.
So that is okay that it didn't
came, but I was expecting, to be
honest, I was expecting an error
in this one, but that's okay.
I'll tell you the reason why.
It happens sometimes.
Now sometimes when you actually
run these things, you actually have
to explicitly return something.
In all the cases.
In this case we are not
returning anything.
That's okay.
I don't know if in the recent version
of Python they have changed it.
In most of the case.
In all of the all cases, if you
have switch statement, you have
to have to return something.
An explicit return is
required in Python.
So just for the safety you can
just go ahead and say return
and you can simply return none,
which is also a default return.
This will make your program foolproof
and in most of the cases you're
going to see this, we didn't got it
probably my python is Most updated 1
I was expecting an error to be
honest but python sometimes updates
so this will still run this and you
got to learn something new this is
again I would say this is very
optional line you will see them in
some of the older code bases now I
can say that but always keep in mind
writing this explicitly is never
going to hurt you especially if you
are building decorators this is
something that we always use to take
care I'll probably not take care of
them in the future if it works just
like that but I'll still study more
on this and that's how we work we
always study all of us we
continuously learn about the things
that happens in the language if I
happen to find out something new and
interesting I just share that on the
YouTube as well as well as on the
udemy courses that is it for this
video.
Let's catch up in the next one.